ITU COMPUTER ENGINEERING
INTERNSHIP REPORT
CHECKLIST
INFORMATION
There are 2 sections in this guideline. The first section describes the compulsory elements. You
MUST complete all these elements so that your report can be graded.
In the second section, each element corresponds to some points that are only known by
reviewers. Reviewers grade your report according to these elements. If the final score is above a
certain threshold, your report will be accepted. If not, the reviewer will give you feedback
including the missing elements and you are expected to submit your edited report according to
the given feedback.
After your second upload, the reviewer will reevaluate your report and you will get your final
grade. You will not be given a second feedback. Please note that we expect you to complete all of
the elements and have determined a high threshold. We apply the threshold to evaluate your
reports fairly. Lastly, grades will not be shown on any platform. We just use it as a criterion of
acceptance.
1. FORMAT (COMPULSORY)
1. The report should be written in LaTex format and shared on Ninova.
2. For Computer Engineering internships, the days of internship must be at least 20 days, for
Information Systems Engineering, the days of internship must be at least 15 days.
Otherwise, the reports are declined directly.
3. The report must be accompanied by an Approval Form.
4. The Approval Form should include the company's signature and stamp.
5. For 100% English programs, the report must be written in English. For programs with
30% English content, the report can be in Turkish, but there must be a 5-page English
summary.
2. CONTENT
6. The report should not have any spelling errors.
7. Headings must be in the order provided in the draft, and main headings should not be
changed. If needed, new subheadings can be added.
8. There should be no significant punctuation errors.
9. There should be no significant grammatical errors.
10. Sentences provided in the draft to explain the content of sections should be deleted.
Information About the Institution:
11. The section should be written in paragraph form, not in bullet points.
12. The section should only provide information about the company, not the internship.
13. Sources must be cited for the information provided about the company, using the IEEE
format for citations.
14. Unnecessary visuals should be avoided.
Introduction:
15. The project undertaken during the internship should be briefly described.
16. Daily tasks performed during the internship should not be mentioned.
Description and Analysis of the Internship Project:
17. Comprehensive technical details about the project should be provided.
18. Technical challenges faced during development should be discussed.
19. Solutions to these challenges should be explained.
20. Technologies used in the project should be explained in detail.
21. Project outputs (interfaces, etc.) should be shared.
22. Quotations in the text should be numbered following the IEEE citation standard (like [1],
[2], etc.).
23. Captions should be provided for figures and tables used in the report.
24. In-text references to figures and tables should be included (e.g., "Figure 1 shows that...").
25. The text should not contain extensive code snippets, only critical code sections should be
included.
26. Special punctuation marks shown in LaTex should be used correctly (`deneme' etc.).
Conclusion:
27. The work should be summarized in a few sentences.
28. Insights gained during the internship, both positive and negative, and personal
experiences should be added.
References:
29. References should be provided in the IEEE citation format. (Please see YouTube,
Overleaf)
30. The number of references should be sufficient (at least 3).
Appendix:
31. Descriptions should be added to the visuals and tables shared in the Appendix.
32. If the Appendix section is not used, the heading should be deleted.
Report Length:
33. The report length should be a minimum of 7 pages (blank pages are not counted
towards the minimum limit) excluding the references, the first 3 pages (cover table of
contents) and the Appendix.